@title
Chippewa Wild Rice

@body
While working with the Red Cliff Band of the Lake Superior Chippewa on their reservation located on the northern edge of Wisconsin where it abuts Lake Superior, I tried to sample as much of the local culture as possible.  I learned their diet was typically non-Native American such as hamburgers and prime ribs on the menu of the very nice restaurant they operated.  Fortunately, I was also invited into their homes, and had the opportunity to learn something of their Native American heritage.  This recipe for wild rice is very special and can be a meal in itself, or a superb stuffing for chicken or game hens.  This recipe was given to me by a lady who could be called the Chippewa Julia Child.  Wild rice incidentally comes principally from the Chippewa reservations located in northern Minnesota.

This recipe easily serves 6 to 8 persons.

	1 cup wild rice (100 % wild rice only!)
	4 to 8 strips bacon
	1/2 to 3/4 pound homestyle sausage
	1/2 pound chopped mushrooms (do not mince)
	Salt and pepper to taste

Cover wild rice with at least 2 1/2 cups water and soak overnight or a minimum of 4 hours.  Check to insure that rice remains covered with water while soaking. Drain soaking water off the rice and place rice in a heavy pot.  Cover with 2 1/2 cups clean water and bring to a boil.  Reduce temperature to low and cover pot with a tight lid and steam the rice for at least 30 minutes or until it becomes fluffy.  Add a little water to the pot if needed to keep the bottom of the pot moist.  Stir the rice with a fork once or twice during the cooking to insure uniform cooking and fluffing.

While the rice is cooking, brown the sausage in a large skillet and stir frequently to break apart the meat.  Add the chopped bacon strips to the sausage mixture and brown it also.  Pour off some of the excess grease if the meats are very fatty.  Add the chopped mushrooms to the browned meats and sauté until tender.

Mix the cooked rice and the meat mixture.  Salt and pepper to taste and put the mixed rice in a proper pan or bowl for the final cooking.

Cover the rice tightly and bake in a preheated 350° oven for 30 to 40 minutes or in a microwave set on high for 10 to 12 minutes.