@title
Citrus Poppy-Seed Cake

@body
Living, Martha Stewart

Diana Oldag and Paula visited Mary when she was 6 months pregnant with Steven to help paint the house interior.  Since Paula and Diana wouldn’t let Mary get on the ladder, Mary’s job that weekend was to keep the music loud and the painters well fed.  As neighbor Ed says, all he heard was the music and lots of laughter.  They discovered this amazing cake which they ate with their breakfast, lunch and dinner all weekend.  

Makes three 8-inch layers.  All ingredients should be at room temperature to cream properly.

	3-3/4 cups all-purpose flour
	1-1/2 teaspoons baking powder
	¾ teaspoon salt
	1-1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for pans
	1-1/2 cups sugar
	7 large whole eggs, lightly beaten
	1-1/2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
	1 cup milk
	½ teaspoon each; grated lemon, orange and lime peels
	1/3 cup poppy seeds, plus more for sprinkling
	Shiny Cream Cheese Frosting (recipe follows)
	Lemon Glaze (recipe follows)
	1 navel orange
	1 lemon

Heat oven to 350°.  Arrange two racks in the center of oven.  Line the bottom of three 8x2” buttered cake pans with parchment paper.  Dust the bottom and sides with flour; tap out any excess.  Sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt in a medium mixing bowl, and set aside.

In bowl of an electric mixer, cream the butter on medium-low speed until lightened, 1 to 2 minutes.  Gradually add the sugar, and beat until the color has lightened, 3 to 4 minutes, scraping down the sides of the bowl once or twice.  Gradually drizzle the eggs into the bowl on medium-low speed, beating after each addition until batter is no longer slick but is smooth and fluffy, about 5 minutes.  Stop to scrape down bowl once or twice so the batter will combine well.  Beat in the vanilla on medium-low speed.

Reduce the speed on mixer to low, and gradually add flour mixture, alternating with the milk, a little of each at a time, beginning and ending with the flour mixture.  Scrape down the bowl once or twice.  Beat in the poppy seeds and citrus peels.

Divide batter evenly between prepared pans.  Bake 30 minutes; rotate pans if needed for even browning.  Bake 5 to 10 minutes more, until a cake tester inserted into center of each comes out clean.  Transfer to wire racks to cool, about 15 minutes.  Remove cakes from pans; leave to cool completely on wire racks, tops up.

When completely cool, remove parchment from bottom of each cake.  Save prettiest layer for the top.  Place one layer on the serving platter.  Spread with 1-1/2 cups shiny cream-cheese frosting.  Cover with second layer, and spread with remaining ½ cup frosting.  Place reserved layer on top.  Refrigerate the cake for 1 hour, loosely covered with plastic wrap.  To serve, stir lemon glaze well, then pour onto center of top layer of cake, letting it run down the sides.  Cut long strips of zest from orange and the lemon using a single-hole zester.  Arrange the zest in loose spirals on the top of cake, and sprinkle the top of cake lightly with poppy seeds.