@title
All In One Family

@body
Mei Ling Moy

This is a chicken dish.  The white meat is bland.  The dark meat is spicy.  Both are served around an island of spinach.

Prepare the chicken:

	1 or 2 chickens, for at least 1 pound each of light and dark meat

Skin and bone the chicken.  Dice the dark meat.  Slice the white meat across the grain.  Keep the light and dark meats separate. 

Cook the skin and bones in water and seasoning for stock to be used at another time.  Discard skin and bones after boiling.

Marinade for dark meat:

	1 pound, about, dark meat
	1 tablespoon dark soy sauce
	1 teaspoon sugar
	1 tablespoon dry sherry
	1 tablespoon cornstarch
	3 slices ginger, minced
	2 garlic cloves, smashed or minced

Mix the marinade, covering the chicken well.  Set aside.

Marinade for light meat:

	1 pound, about, light meat
	1 tablespoon light soy sauce
	1 teaspoon sugar
	1 tablespoon dry sherry
	1 tablespoon cornstarch
	1 teaspoon sesame oil

Mix the marinade, covering the chicken well.  Set aside.

Have ready for the light meat:

	6 water chestnuts, sliced
	5 pineapple rings, cut into pieces
	1 tomato, fresh and without skin.  Peel outside into long strip. Chop center.
	2 garlic cloves, peeled

-line

Cooking Process: LIGHT MEAT

Mix the light meat mixture with 2 tablespoons cornstarch dissolved in 1/2 cup water.  Heat the wok, and then add 2 to 3 tablespoons oil.  Stir fry 2 cloves peeled garlic, remove when brown.  This is called infusing.  Remove the light meat from the marinade and stir fry until the pieces begin to cook.  Stir constantly.  Add drained pineapple and water chestnuts and stir.  Add 1 or 2 teaspoons cornstarch dissolved in 1/4 cup cold water.  If cornstarch mixture clumps up, add a little chicken stock to thin.  Add a little more sherry and sesame oil to taste at the end of cooking. Remove chicken from wok as soon as it is cooked. Do not overcook.


Have ready for the dark meat:

	2 to 3 tablespoons oil
	1 hot dried pepper
	2 tablespoons Hoisin sauce
	1/2 teaspoon crushed dried red peppers
	1 onion, diced
	2 stalks celery, diced
	2 scallions, sliced

-line

Cooking Process for DARK MEAT;

Wipe out wok.  Heat wok and add oil.  Add whole red dried pepper and remove when brown.  Remove dark meat from marinade, add to wok and stir fry until mixed with oil.  Cover wok and steam chicken for a few minutes.  Stir occasionally.  Add Hoisin sauce, crushed peppers, diced onion, and celery.  Stir fry until chicken is cooked and vegetables are their brightest color.  The scallions should be added the last minute of cooking.

-line

THE ISLAND:

	1 quart chicken stock, boiling
	1 teaspoon sesame oil
	1 pound spinach, fresh with stems, or kale, broccoli, etc.

Blanch the spinach in the boiling broth for one (1) minute only.  Remove the spinach immediately.  Save the broth for another use, such as soup.

-line

SERVICE:

Serve this course on a large platter, with the light chicken on one end, the dark meat at the other end, with the green spinach island in the center between the two chicken flavors.  The outside of the fresh tomato peeled in the long strip should be rolled up in the shape of a rose and put in the center of the green.  Serve immediately.  Steamed rice is good on the side. 

An aside:  As a vegetable dish for any meal, cook fresh spinach as Mei Ling describes above.  Do not steam it.  