@title
Beef Sukiyaki

@body
Yamato Sukiyaki House, 717 California Street, San Francisco

Paula, your mother was carrying you when we got this recipe.  This recipe approximates the sukiyaki I ate in Japan very well.

Prepare all the ingredients ahead of time so you can put everything on the table.  Arrange the meats and vegetables attractively on a large platter or in several dishes.  Put the sauce in a pitcher.  Use an electric skillet and cook at the table, Japanese style.‚

Serves four to six.

	1 1/2 pounds top sirloin or rib steak (lesser cuts work too), cut into bacon thickness
	2 bunches green onions, cut about 1 1/2 inches long
	1 1/2 pounds dry onions, sliced
	1 pound spinach, cut about 1-1/2” long
	1/2 can #2 bamboo shoots
	3/4 pound fresh bean sprouts
	1/2 mushrooms, sliced
	1 cake bean curd (tofu), cut into small squares
	6 stalks celery, sliced at an angle              
	1 small package of rice noodles (clear variety only soaked in warm water for at least 1/2 hour

Prepare cooking soy sauce (SHOYU):

	1/2 cup Japanese soy sauce
	1/4 cup consommé or beef stock
	2 ounces Japanese rice wine (Sake)
	2 heaping teaspoons sugar

Combine the shoyu ingredients in a small pan, heat, stirring to dissolve the sugar, for 8 to 1o minutes.  Set aside off the heat.

Preparing the Beef;
Lightly oil a hot large skillet or wok.  Add one-half the beef, to sear and brown.  Add one-half the vegetables and drained noodles and one-half the cooking soy sauce and cook only until vegetables are bright in color and still crisp.  A little more sugar and sauce may be added if necessary. Serve immediately, and commence the second batch.  Cook as for the first batch. 

Serve with cooked white rice.  Traditional Japanese would also serve a small rice bowl with a beaten egg in it for each person to dip the meat in before laying it on the rice or into the mouth to prevent burning the mouth.  Cooking and service should be at the table, from the skillet, to a small individual plate, to an egg bowl or a rice bowl, and then to the mouth.  Saki, tea, and beer are good to drink with this meal.
