@title
Beef Stroganoff

@body
Recipes: Russian Cooking, Time Life Books

Sautéed Beef with Mushrooms and Onions in Sour Cream Sauce

This is the classic Russian version as it was originally made.  It is well worth keeping around.

To serve 4 to 6.
	1 tablespoon dry mustard
	1 tablespoon sugar
	2 teaspoons salt
	4 to 5 tablespoons vegetable oil
	4 cups onions, thinly sliced and separated into rings
	1 pound fresh mushrooms, thinly sliced lengthwise
	2 pounds fillet of beef, trimmed of all fat
	1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
	1 pint sour cream

In a small bowl combine the mustard, 1 1/2 teaspoons of the sugar, a pinch of the salt, and enough hot water (about 1 tablespoon) to form a thick paste.  Let the mustard mixture rest at room temperature for about 15 minutes.

Heat 2 tablespoons of the oil in a heavy 10 to 12 inch skillet over high heat until a light haze forms above it.  Drop in the onions and mushrooms, cover the pan, and reduce the heat to low.  Stirring from time to time, simmer 20 to 30 minutes, or until vegetables are soft.  Drain them in a sieve, discard the liquid and return the mixture to the skillet.

With a large, sharp knife cut the meat across the grain into ¼ inch wide rounds.  Lay each round on a board and slice it with the grain into 1/4 inch wide strips.  Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in another heavy 10 to 12 inch skillet over high heat until hot but not smoking.  Drop in half the meat and, tossing the strips constantly with a large spoon, fry for 2 minutes or so until the meat is lightly browned.  With a slotted spoon transfer the meat to the vegetables in the other skillet and fry the remaining meat similarly, adding more oil if necessary.
When all the meat has been combined with the vegetables, stir in the remaining salt, pepper, and the mustard paste.  Stir in the sour cream, a tablespoon at a time.  Then add the remaining ½ teaspoon of sugar, and reduce the heat to low.  Cover the pan and simmer for 2 or 3 minutes, or until the sauce is heated through. Taste for seasoning.

To serve bef Stroganov, transfer the contents of the pan to a heated serving platter and, if you like, scatter straw potatoes over the top.

I used commercial thin type French fries, browned in the oven per instructions of the package.  I then spread them around the edge of the platter of Stroganov.  Worked fine.
