@title
BOEUF BOURGUIGNON


@body
Beef Stewed in Red Wine

The French Chef Cookbook, Julia Child

	6 ounces salt pork or lean bacon
	Olive oil or cooking oil
	3 pounds lean stewing beef cut into 2 inch chunks and dried on paper towels
	3 cups full-bodied red wine
	About 2 cups beef bouillon
	1 tablespoon tomato paste
	2 to 3 cloves mashed garlic
	1/2 teaspoon thyme
	1 bay leaf
	Salt as necessary

Preheat oven to 325º.

Cut the bacon or pork into 1 x ¼-inch sticks.  After cutting, place meat sticks in a pan with 2 quarts cold water, simmer for 10 minutes, rinse in cold water, drain, and dry.  Brown these pieces in fry pan for fat to brown beef.

Pour rendered fat into large skillet.  Add oil if necessary.  Over moderately high heat brown the beef, a few pieces at a time.  Turn frequently to brown on all sides.  Place the beef, as it is browned, in casserole or baking dish.

Pour browning fat out of skillet, pour in the red wine, and scrape up into it all the brown bits.  Then pour the wine into a casserole.  Add browned pork pieces (lardons) to the casserole, and enough beef bouillon almost to cover the meat; stir in the rest of the ingredients and bring casserole to simmer on top of the stove.  Cover the casserole and set in lower third of oven.  Regulate heat so liquid simmers slowly for 2 1/2 to 3 hours, or longer, until beef is tender.  Stew may be simmered on stove top also.

While beef is simmering, do the following:
	1 pound fresh mushrooms
	1/2 tablespoon oil
	1 1/2 tablespoon butter
	1/4 teaspoon salt
	18 to 24 small white onions (1 inch diameter)
	1 tablespoon butter 1/2 teaspoon salt
	water

Trim, clean and dry mushrooms.  Cut caps into quarters with stems.  Heat oil in skillet, add mushrooms, and toss over high heat for 3 to 4 minutes to brown lightly.  Remove to side dish until needed, then toss with salt.

Drop onions into boiling water; bring rapidly back to boil for several seconds to loosen skins.   Drain.  Peel carefully, pierce a cross 1/4 inch deep in the root ends.  Place in one layer in a heavy saucepan; add butter and salt and enough water to come up halfway.  Cover and simmer slowly for 20 to 30 minutes, or until onions are tender.  Set aside, saving cooking liquid.
Sauce and Serve:

Drain the beef cooking liquid into saucepan.  If liquid has boiled down too much, add beef bouillon to make total of about 2 1/2 cups liquid.  Skim off fat, bring liquid to simmer, taste for seasoning, add salt and pepper as necessary.  Cream butter and flour to make a paste in a small bowl.  Pour in several spoonfuls of beef-cooking liquid and blend with a wire whip, and then pour this mixture into the beef liquid.  Pour in the onion-cooking juices and bring liquid to simmer, stirring.  This is the sauce.

Add mushrooms and onions to the beef pour on the sauce, cover and simmer slowly for 5 minutes to blend flavors and coat meat and vegetables with sauce.  

The dish is now done. (If you are not serving immediately, uncover casserole; when cool, cover, refrigerate, and reheat later.)

Serve in its casserole, or arrange on a hot platter surrounded with boiled potatoes, noodles, or rice, and decorated with parsley.  Accompany with hot French bread, tossed salad, and the same red wine you used for the cooking.  

We prefer potatoes.
