@title
Clam And Oyster Pie

@body

-img clamAndOysterPie.png

The Country House, Pemberton, New Jersey

The Country House was a little restaurant on the outskirts of Pemberton where we occasionally had lunch or supper.  At the college, we called it the Burlington County College annex--it was one of the few area restaurants with fabric tablecloths and napkins for lunch and a bar big enough to hold an afternoon crowd.  Daddy became friendly with the cook, too.

After a six-month campaign, Daddy managed to get this secret recipe from the owner.  She stated, "The recipe given to us years ago by Herbert Johnson and wife of West Creek, old time fish man.  She used top and bottom crust and baked 50 minutes.  We used just top crust.  Guess you wouldn't use pan with water, just bake in oven."

	8 potatoes
	4 onions
	Salt and pepper
	1/4 pound bacon
	chopped parsley
	Tobasco sauce
	Worcestershire sauce
	1 tablespoon flour
	"Alamo" spice*
	1 pint raw clams and or oysters with juice
	Pie crust for top and bottom**
	1 egg
 
Dice potatoes and 1 onion.  Put in pot and cover with water.  Add sprinkle of parsley, salt, pepper, Alamo, and cook until tender.  Drain potatoes and onions, but save the potato water.  

Dice bacon and fry slightly.  Add 3 chopped onions and fry.  While cooking, add dash of Tobasco, Worcestershire, pepper, Alamo, and more parsley.  Add and mix in flour.  Continue to cook while adding a little of the potato water, clam or oyster juice.  Cook a few minutes to blend.  Fold in cooked potatoes and remove from heat.  Spread about 1/2 the potato mixture on the bottom of a casserole.  Add raw clams and oysters on top.  Then layer rest of potatoes on top of clams and oysters.  On top of that, add 1 hard cooked egg in slices over the surface of the pie.  Add clam, oyster juices, or potato water to casserole to keep it moist while baking.

Cover the top of casserole with prepared crust, crimp edges, and wipe with egg wash.  Vent crust with design.  Place casserole in shallow pan filled with water to cover bottom of pan in 350ยบ oven until crust is brown on top and clams and oysters are bubbling inside.

CRUSTS
1 1/2 cups of Biscuit mix and 1/2 cup sour cream mixed until blended.  Roll out and make shell to fit size of casserole.

The recipe above calls for a crust only on the top.  The pie is also very good with a crust on the top and the bottom as you prefer.

*ALAMO is a spice mixture put out by the Sexton spice company, now out of business.  Search the Internet for alternatives, or use Old Bay.  Fortunately, the clam and oyster pie is good by itself with or without the Alamo.
