@title
Coquilles

@contentTitle
COQUILLES ST. JACQUES BAUMANIÉRE

@body
(Scallops in Cream Sauce)

Treasury of Great Recipes, Mary and Vincent Price

As Vincent says "Of all the many recipes for seafood served in scallop shells, this is one of the most delicious--and simple and quick to make into the bargain.  We like the fact that the coquilles can be prepared in advance and need only be heated in the oven at the last minute."  We concur.

-line

Scallops:
	1 1/2 pound scallops
	1 tablespoon shallots, chopped
	1/4 teaspoon salt
	dash of white pepper
	1/2 cup dry vermouth

Wash scallops.  If these are large sea scallops, cut them into quarters.  Bay scallops are fine as they come.  Put the scallops in a saucepan with the rest of the ingredients.  Bring the liquid to a boil, cover the saucepan, and simmer over low heat for 2 minutes only.  Remove the scallops with a slotted spoon, and divide into 4 scallop shells.  Cook the liquid remaining in the saucepan over high heat until reduced in half.

-line

Sauce:
	1 cup cream
	1 tablespoon flour
	4 tablespoons soft butter

Add to the reduced liquid the cream.  Boil rapidly until the cream is reduced and the sauce is the consistency of syrup.

Combine the flour and butter.  Reduce the heat under the cream mixture and gradually stir in the butter/flour mixture bit by bit.

-line

Presentation:

Pour the sauce over the scallops, sprinkle with minced parsley.  The filled scallop shells can be set aside at this time.  If for several hours, refrigerate.  Return to room temperature before heating to serve.  When preparing to serve, heat in a very hot oven for 5 minutes or until the sauce begins to bubble and lightly brown.  Serve immediately.

This recipe serves 4 persons, so increase accordingly for the number you wish to serve.  If you don't have individual scallop shells to serve with, put the whole recipe in a single quiche pan or other shallow baking dish.  However, this may lead to fights over the number of scallops each person gets.
