@title
Crab And Spinach Casserole

@body
Cuisine Rapide

Pierre Franay demonstrated this dish on his television program when the needed ingredients were on hand.  I gave it a try and it was excellent.  The quantity serves four persons but can easily be cut in half for two.

Preheat oven to 350.

	1 cup picked crabmeat
	1 pound leaf spinach
	1/4 cup chopped shallots or onion
	salt and pepper
	4 tablespoons butter
	3 tablespoons flour
	1-3/4 cup warm milk
	1/4 teaspoon cayenne
	nutmeg to taste
	1 egg yolk
	2 tablespoons Swiss cheese
	2 tablespoons parmesan cheese

Wash the fresh spinach and pick off the big stems.  Do not remove the stems in the leaf.  Add the spinach leaves to a hot wok or large pan.  Do not add any oil or butter at this time as the spinach will cook or steam in its own moisture.  Cover the wok but stir the spinach frequently to insure it "wilts" evenly.  When the spinach is slightly wilted, add 1 tablespoon of the butter and the shallots and simmer for two to three minutes uncovered until the onion is translucent, then remove the wok from the heat.

Melt 3 tablespoons of butter in a heavy pot and add the flour and stir to make a roux.  Do not brown the roux but make sure the raw flour is cooked.  Add the warm milk to the roux , stirring to make the sauce.  When blended, add the cayenne and nutmeg.  The sauce should cook about five minutes and then blend in the egg yolk by putting a little of the hot sauce mixture in a small dish with the egg yolk, mix well and return that mixture into the sauce pot  and blend with the Swiss cheese.  Remove the sauce pot from the heat.

Spread the sautéed spinach on the bottom of an ovenproof casserole dish.  The spinach should not have an excessive amount of moisture in it.  Add the crabmeat in a layer on top of the spinach.  Spoon the sauce over the crabmeat and spinach evenly and top with the parmesan cheese.  Bake for 10 minutes or until slightly golden brown.  Remove and serve.  

Any type of picked crabmeat should work with this dish.  Frozen spinach can be used if fresh spinach is not available, but fresh spinach is always best.  I also added some fresh sliced mushrooms to the spinach and onions and it worked well.  A slice of hot crusty bread goes well with this casserole.
