@title
Feijoda

@contentTitle
FEIJOADA (fai-zho-ah-da)

@body
Dalva Polo

Larissa (Lara) Polo is the Rotary Exchange student who spent a year with us and in the process became part of our family.  Her mother sent the following recipe for what Lara says is Brasil's national dish.  It is much more than beans and rice and well worth the effort.

	2 pounds dried black beans
	4 chorizos (Spanish sausages available in any Latin market)
	1/4 pound dried beef
	1 pound oxtail (optional)
	1/2 pound salt pork
	1/4 pound bacon
	1/2 pound fresh pork sausage in casings
	3 bay leaves
	1 dried red pepper (hot)
	Rice
	1 head green cabbage
	Orange wedges

-line

Beans and Meats 
Soak the black beans overnight or cover with water, bring beans and water to a boil, cover the pan of beans off heat, and let soak for one hour.  After the beans have soaked, pour off the soaking water.  Cover the beans with fresh water and cook until tender, adding more water if necessary.  Set aside when tender.

In another pot add the chopped salt pork and bacon and simmer until opaque, then add the chopped chorizos, beef, dried beef, and sausage and simmer until tender.  Set aside when finished.

	1 large onion
	3 garlic cloves
	vegetable oil
	1 tablespoon flour
	salt
 
In a large pot, add minced onion and garlic and sauté in a little vegetable oil until translucent.  Add five tablespoons of cooked beans and mash those beans with a glass jar or other masher in the bottom of the pot to blend with the onions and garlic in a form of paste.  Mix in one tablespoon flour to form a roux.  

Add the whole bay leaves and the rest of the beans and the reserved meat mixture together and bring to the boil.  Add water if needed to thin.  Simmer for 10 minutes.  Add salt to taste.
The bean and meat mixture should have a consistency similar to a thick soup.

-line

Rice
	2 cups rice
	1 tablespoon vegetable oil
	1 onion, minced
	4 cups boiling water 
	 salt

In a large heavy pot add the oil and minced onion and sauté until translucent.  Add the 2 cups uncooked rice and simmer for five minutes. Stir frequently. Then add the 4 cups boiling water, salt to taste, and cover the pot.  Reduce the heat to low and cook the rice for 20 minutes or until the liquid is absorbed.

-line

Cabbage
	1 head green cabbage, shredded thinly
	vegetable oil

Lara separates and washes the leaves.  Then she rolls each one and slices it  to have long, thin strips.  Sauté or stir-fry the shredded cabbage in a little hot oil quickly until it is bright green, and lightly salt to taste.  Remove and reserve in a warm bowl.

-line

Presentation

Serve in separate serving dishes the rice, the bean and meat mixture, the cabbage, and fresh orange wedges about 3/4 inch wide.

As the dishes are passed, each person puts a serving of rice on his or her plate, adding the bean and meat mixture on top of the rice.  A serving of cabbage is placed at the side of the rice as are two or three orange wedges.  When everyone has created a portion, the enjoyment begins.  Refills are available.

Feijoada is commonly served in Brasil on Saturdays at the main noon meal and sometimes on Wednesdays.  This meal is not recommended for a late night dinner.  It is great for serving a crowd.  Leftovers, if any, freeze well.  

This dinner is highly recommended.
