@title
Four-In-Hand Chicken

@body

-img fourInHandChicken.png

Poulet Poche aux Aromates

“The French Chef Cookbook” Julia Child

The ultimate Pickens' entree

	The vegetable flavoring:
	2 medium carrots, peeled
	2 medium onions, peeled
	3 medium celery stalks, trimmed and washed
	2 tablespoons butter
	1/2 bay leaf
	1/2 cup chicken broth

Cut the vegetables into julienne matchsticks 1 1/2 inches long and cook slowly in the butter, bay leaf, and chicken broth for 10 minutes, or until tender.

Simmering the chicken:
	3 1/2 pound chicken, cut up
	Salt and pepper
	1/4 teaspoon tarragon
	1 cup dry white vermouth
	About 2 cups clear chicken broth

Remove the fat. Place in the bottom of a casserole or electric skillet, layers of the chicken and then the vegetables on top, sprinkling each with salt, pepper, and herbs.  Pour in the wine; add enough chicken broth almost to cover the chicken.  Bring to the simmer, cover, and simmer slowly either on low heat or in a 325º oven for about 30 minutes.  Chicken is done when drumsticks, pricked with a fork, are tender.  Skim off fat; carefully correct seasoning of cooking liquid.

Served "a la Bretonne"
Preheat oven to 375º.

	2 stainless-steel or enameled saucepans
	5 tablespoons flour
	4 tablespoons butter
	1/2 cup heavy cream
	3 tablespoons grated Swiss or Gruyere cheese
	1 tablespoon butter

Drain chicken-cooking liquid into one of the saucepans and boil down rapidly until liquid has reduced to 2 cups.  In another saucepan, cook the flour and butter slowly together for 2 minutes without coloring.  Remove from heat; let cool a moment, then pour in all the hot chicken stock at once, beating vigorously with a wire whip to blend thoroughly.  Boil, stirring for 1 minute.  Thin out sauce with about 1/2 cup heavy cream, added by spoonfuls; sauce should coat a spoon nicely.  Carefully correct seasoning.

Lightly butter a baking and serving dish.  Pour a few spoonfuls of sauce into the dish; arrange chicken on top.  Fold the vegetables (which cooked with the chicken) into the sauce, and pour over the chicken.  Sprinkle top with cheese; cut the tablespoon of butter into small pieces and distribute over cheese. (Set aside uncovered; cover and refrigerate when cold)

About half an hour before serving, place in upper third of preheated oven; bake until bubbling hot and top has browned nicely.

Accompany with rice or noodles; buttered peas, asparagus, or green salad; French bread; and wine of choice.

Usually we prepare this for a crowd, so we prepare the dish for a large casserole.  Poach several chickens at the same time.  Use chicken halves or quarters.  After the chicken is done, drain the stock for the sauce.  Bone the chicken and fold the meat into the sauce.  Pour a few spoonfuls of sauce in the bottom of a buttered serving dish.  Add a layer of cooked rice, about 1/2 cup for each person to be served.  Cover the rice with the chicken/vegetable mixture, and top with the cheese.  Continue as above.  Leftovers freeze well.
