@title
Fried Combination Rice

@body
Chopsticks (MAAG)

This was the first Chinese dish we ever fixed.  We had a long, galley kitchen with one wall of countertop.  Every inch of it was covered with every dish, pot, and pan in our apartment.  Fortunately, we have learned we can combine in one bowl ingredients to be cooked together.  

	4 cups cooked rice (At least 1 day old)
	2 eggs
	2 ounces ham
	3 ounces shrimp
	2 ounces mushrooms
	3 ounces white chicken meat or pork
	2 ounces peas
	2 green onions
	1 small carrot
	2 tablespoons soy sauce
	1 to 2 teaspoons salt
	4 to 5 tablespoons oil (or lard)
	2 slices ginger
	1/2 teaspoon corn starch
	Black pepper

Cut the chicken or pork into shreds and add the soy sauce and cornstarch.  Stir to blend and marinate.

Cut the ham into small pieces about the size of a pea.  Clean the shrimp and put in a bowl with a pinch of salt and pepper.

Shred the mushrooms, fresh or dried.  If dried, soak in warm water for 30 minutes before cutting and discard stems.

Shred carrot and add to green peas.

Break eggs in a small bowl and whip with some salt and pepper.

Clean onions and cut white part into 1/4 inch pieces.  Mince ginger slices.

To prepare eggs:  Heat wok, add 1 teaspoon oil.  When hot, add half the egg mixture and spread over the bottom of pan or wok.  When egg has turned brown on the bottom, roll up and remove from pan.  Repeat for remaining mixture.  Cut egg rolls into shreds.

Place wok over heat and add 1 tablespoon oil.  When hot, fry ginger for 1-2 minute, add chicken or pork and stir fry for 2 minutes.  Then add carrot, peas, mushrooms, ham, and green onion and stir fry 2 more minutes.  Next, add shrimp, soy sauce, and salt.  Stir and cook for another 3 minutes.  Remove from wok and put in the bowl in which the rice will be served and keep it warm.  Add 2 tablespoons oil to wok, and when hot, add the cooked rice and stir fry until warm but not more than 5 minutes. Add 1 tablespoon soy sauce and stir with the rice.  Add the reserved meat mixture and half the egg shreds and stir fry for 1/2 minute.  

Transfer to the serving plate or bowl.  Sprinkle the remaining egg shreds over the top.  Serve.

An alternative for serving is to put the completed rice in a stainless mixing bowl just big enough to hold the rice, pack gently to firm up the shape of the bowl.  Put a plate or another bowl over the stainless bowl and carefully invert the stainless bowl onto the plate and remove the bowl.  This mounds the rice.  Sprinkle the last of the egg shreds on top.

Some observations:  You don't have to start with day-old rice.  You can use rice you have just steamed.

Chinese roast pork shreds are good in this dish.  If you don't have ham or chicken or shrimp, don't worry about it.  It tastes good vegetarian.

Other vegetables such as small broccoli flowerets or zucchini slices are tasty additions.
