@title
Fried Chicken

@body
Your dad and I grew up on fried chicken.  It was a weekly dinner entree and a staple for the first day of family vacations.  

Before we were married, I was invited to join the Steiners to travel to Idaho to visit Mother Ruth, your dad's father's wife who had been close to him and the family from the time she married D Brown.  We spent the night before we left packing and cooking--fried chicken, of course.

I had often fried chicken.  I knew one piece from another.  My mom always left the wishbone and breast whole, but I thought it polite to ask your grandmother how she wanted her chicken cut.  I held up a piece and asked if she wanted the breast split.

"Yes, that's a good idea, but you can split that back you're holding, too."

	1 fryer, cut up
	1 cup flour
	1 teaspoon thyme
	1 teaspoon ground pepper
	1 teaspoon paprika
	1 teaspoon salt
	1 cup milk
	1/2 cup cooking oil, or bacon fat, if you dare.

Wash and dry cut up chicken pieces.  Place on paper towels.  Place flour and seasonings in a plastic or brown paper bag.  Shake.  Put 1 or 2 pieces of chicken at a time in bag and shake to cover completely with seasoned flour.  Remove pieces and dip each piece in a small bowl with the milk.  Remove the pieces and return to the bag with the seasoned flour.  Shake and cover again with seasoned flour.  Carefully remove and gently shake to remove excess flour.  Place each piece in a skillet with oil already heated to moderately high temperature.  Repeat for the rest of the pieces.

Lower the heat under the skillet to medium.  Avoid too much over-crowding of chicken pieces in the skillet, if possible.  After chicken has browned on one side, turn the pieces over.  Cover skillet and turn the heat to moderately low and simmer the chicken for 20 to 30 minutes or until done.  Check frequently to insure no pieces cook too fast or are not being cooked on all sides.

Remove pieces as they are browned and cooked.  Smaller pieces will cook faster.  Place cooked pieces on paper towels to drain.  

Make and serve with white gravy and mashed potatoes.  Also finger-lickin good cold.
