@title
KULEBIAKA

@body
Recipes:  Russian Cooking, Time Life Books

When we Ramapo folks worked at Richmond College, London, we tried almost every restaurant in town except the Russian Tea Room.  When we returned to the U. S., we decided to have a Russian dinner for alums of the Ramapo/Richmond exchange.  This flaky cabbage loaf proved spectacular to look at and to taste.  Serves 8 to 12.

-line

Pastry:
	4 cups flour
	1/2 pound unsalted butter, cut into bits
	6 tablespoons chilled shortening
	1 teaspoon salt
	10 to 12 tablespoons ice water

In a large, chilled bowl, combine the flour, butter, shortening, and salt.  Working quickly, use your fingertips to rub the flour and fat together until they blend and resemble flakes of coarse meal.  Pour 10 tablespoons of the water over the mixture all at once, toss together lightly and gather into a ball.  If the dough seems crumbly, add up to 2 tablespoons more ice water by drops.  Divide the dough in half, dust each half with flour, and wrap separately in wax paper.  Refrigerate 3 hours, or until firm.

-line

Cabbage Filling:
	3 pound head of white cabbage, quartered, cored, then coarsely shredded
	4 tablespoons butter
	2 large onions, coarsely chopped
	4 hard-cooked eggs, finely chopped
	1/4 cup finely cut dill leaves
	2 tablespoons parsley, finely chopped
	1 tablespoon salt
	1/2 teaspoon sugar
	Freshly ground black pepper

Over high heat, bring 4 quarts of lightly salted water to a boil in an 8 to 10 quart pot and drop in the cabbage.  Reduce the heat to moderate and cook uncovered for 5 minutes.  Then drain the cabbage in a colander and set it aside.

Melt the butter over high heat in a deep skillet or 3 to 4 quart casserole.  Add the chopped onions, reduce the heat to moderate, and cook 5 to 8 minutes, or until the onions are soft and lightly colored.  Drop in the cabbage and cover the pan.  Simmer over low heat for 30 to 40 minutes, or until the cabbage is tender, then uncover the pan, raise the heat to high and boil briskly until almost all of the liquid in the pan has evaporated.  Drain the cabbage in a colander and combine it with the chopped eggs, dill and parsley.  Stir in the salt, sugar, and a few grindings of pepper and taste for seasoning.

	2 tablespoons butter, softened
	1 egg yolk, mixed with 1 tablespoon cream
	1 tablespoon butter, melted
	1 cup melted butter, hot but not brown, or sour cream

-line

To Assemble:
Preheat oven to 400.  Place one ball of dough on a floured surface and roll it into a rough rectangle about 1 inch thick.  Dust with flour and roll until dough is about 1/8 inch thick, then trim it to a rectangle 7 inches wide by 16 inches long. 

Coat a large cookie sheet with 2 tablespoons of butter, drape the pastry over the rolling pin and unroll it over the cookie sheet.  Place the filling along the length of the pastry, leaving 1 inch border of dough exposed around it.  With a pastry brush, brush the exposed rim of dough with the egg yolk and cream mixture.  Roll the other half of the dough into a rectangle about 9 inches wide and 18 inches long, drape over the pin and unroll over the filling.  Seal the edges by pressing down hard with the back of a fork. Or use your fingertips or a pastry crimper to pinch the edges into narrow pleats.

Cut out a 1 inch circle from the center of the dough.  Gather the remaining pastry scraps into a ball, roll out again, and with a small knife, cut out decorative shapes such a leaves or triangles and decorate the top of the loaf.  Coat the entire surface of the pastry with the remaining egg-cream mixture, place any pastry shaped on top, and refrigerate for 20 minutes.

Pour 1 tablespoon melted butter into the opening of the loaf and bake the kulebiaka in the center of the oven for 1 hour, or until golden brown.

Serve at once, accompanied by a pitcher of melted butter or sour cream.
