@title
Malaysian Steamboat

@body
Mahani

An oriental hot pot is a special vessel which allows the cook to light a charcoal fire--about six briquettes--at the base of a column on which rests something that looks like an angel food cake pan.  We have one, courtesy of Mahani and Baharuddin.  However, you can use an electric skillet.  The fun of dining is preparing the food ahead of time and then cooking at the table. Any number of ingredients and the quantity of each can be whatever you desire, or have available.  This is a spectacular meal--and it tastes great.  Ladle the remaining broth as the soup course served after the entree.

	chicken
	beef
	shrimp
	crabmeat
	abalone (available canned)
	scallops
	fish or fishballs
	celery 
	celery cabbage
	bean sprouts 
	green vegetables
	onions
	chicken stock, have 1 quart or so available
	fresh ginger, vinegar, sugar, salt, chili oil, sesame oil

Cut all ingredients into small bite-sized pieces.  They are easier to eat and will cook faster.  

For the sauce, pound or grind the ginger and the chili, salt and sugar (small amounts).  Then add the vinegar, for flavor.  You can also use Italian dressing, sugar, and a dash of Tobasco for the sauce.  

Give each diner a small bowl of dipping sauce.  When ready to serve, put red-hot coals into the chute of the steamboat.  Place in the center of the table on top of a heat-proof pad for protection.  Pour stock into the bowl of the steamboat.  Cover and bring to a boil.  When boiling, add a tablespoon of sesame oil.  
Provide chopsticks and, if possible, a small strainer.  Each diner picks whatever he or she likes from the platter of cut ingredients and puts them into the hot stock.  Cook as desired.  Each person remove his or her pieces when they are cooked and dips each piece in the sauce before eating.

If the soup cools, add more charcoal.

If a steamboat is not available, use a heat-proof bowl over a hot plate on an electric pan or skillet.  The atmosphere isn't the same but it does cook.

Cook the milder flavored ingredients first so the flavors are not lost.  Continue cooking and eating all items.  Have precooked or quick cooking noodles or pasta ready to add to the stock, which has become very rich because of all the added flavors.  You can also drop in a slightly beaten egg for egg drop soup.

Enjoy the soup.
