@title
Pizza A La Pickens

@body

-img pizzaALaPickens.png

This experiment turned out well as a granddaddy pizza.

Preheat oven to 400º.

	1 cup plus of sliced onions
	1 cup plus of sliced green peppers
	2 cloves chopped garlic
	olive oil
	1 pound ground beef
	2 to 3 cups tomato sauce
	1 stick pepperoni
	1 pound Mozzarella 
	1/2 cup Parmesan 
	1 to 2 teaspoons oregano
	1 teaspoon basil
	salt and pepper
	basic pizza dough

Prepare basic pizza dough recipe and roll out as for pizzas.  Put first pizza on the bottom of a 9- or 10-inch springform pan oiled with olive oil.  Make sure to bring the dough up the sides of the pan to and over the top edge and still roll over the top layer of dough to seal the two layers.

Make 1 to 1-½ inch meatballs of the ground beef, or a recipe of your choice, brown them in a skillet, and remove them.  Spread a thin layer of pizza sauce on the bottom layer of dough, and then place the meatballs in one layer on top of the sauce in the springform pan.

Sauté the onions, peppers, and garlic in a little olive oil until they become tender.  Then spread them on top of the meatballs to cover and fill voids between the meatballs.  Then on top of the peppers and onions, spread a layer of pizza sauce again.

Roll out and form the top layer of dough.  Place on top of the pizza.  Match up the edges, and seal by rolling the two layers of dough together.  Wiping the dough lightly with water between the two layers where they have contact will help the seal.  

On top of the top layer, spread a layer of pizza sauce.  Then add sliced pepperoni and a light layer of mozzarella cheese.  Add pizza sauce on top of the cheese.  Bake in a 400 oven or until done, approximately 30 minutes.  About 10 minutes before the creation is done, remove and place a layer of mozzarella cheese and parmesan cheese combination over the top.  Return to the oven to finish baking.  This should prevent the cheese from getting too brown. 

When baked, remove from the oven and allow to rest for about 15 minutes to set up.  Cut into wedges and serve.  Freezes well in individual servings.
