@title
Steak And Okra Gumbo

@body
Paul Prudhomme via Ann Reid

I first made this recipe out of curiosity because of the seasonings involved.  The blend of flavors really works.  I also used venison instead of beef, and it was fine.  Make a double batch because it freezes well--and tastes so good.

Seasoning mix:
	2 tablespoons salt
	1 tablespoon paprika
	2 teaspoons white pepper
	2 teaspoons onion powder
	1 1/2 teaspoon thyme
	1 1/4 teaspoon garlic powder
	1 teaspoon dry mustard
	1 teaspoon cayenne
	1 teaspoon basil
	3/4 teaspoon black pepper

Mix all the seasonings together and reserve.

	1/2 cup lard (1/3 cup oil)
	2 1/2 pounds beef, cubed in 1/2 inch cubes
	1/2 cup flour
	8 cups okra, sliced
	1 cup onions, chopped
	2 tablespoons butter
	4 bay leaves
	3 cups onions, chopped
	2 cups celery, chopped
	2 cups green peppers
	2 cups tomatoes, chopped
	2 tablespoons jalapeno peppers, chopped
	1 tablespoon minced garlic
	7 cups chicken stock
	3/4 pound shrimp, peeled, cleaned, and at room temperature

Sprinkle and rub some of the seasoning mix into the meat.  Then dredge the meat with the flour.  Heat the oil in a large skillet or Dutch oven, and add the flour left after dredging the meat and 1/2 teaspoon of the mix.  Stir well to blend the oil and flour.  Add the dredged meat, a little at a time to brown.  Remove browned meat and add more meat until all meat is browned.  Reserve the meat.

Add 4 cups okra to the same skillet and fry until brown.  Then add 1 cup onions, the butter, 2 teaspoons of the mix and cook for 4 minutes.

Add the bay leaves and 1/2 cup stock and cook 3 minutes.  Then add 2 cups onions, celery, green peppers, and all of the rest of the mix.  Cook 5 minutes then stir in the tomatoes, jalapeno peppers, and garlic.  Stir and cook 5 minutes longer.  

If you have been using a skillet and not a soup pot or Dutch over, transfer the contents in the skillet to a soup pot or Dutch oven.  Add 6 cups stock and the reserved browned meat.  Cook 10 minutes, stirring to blend the ingredients.  

Then add the remaining 4 cups okra and simmer until the meat is tender, about 20 minutes.  When the meat is tender, add the shrimp, mix into the gumbo, cover the pot, remove from the heat, and let it rest for 10 minutes.  The hot contents will cook the shrimp. 

Serve by putting about 1 1/2 cups gumbo on top of 1/3 cup cooked rice for each person.  Plain rice or Paul Prudhomme's Basic Rice are good cooked rices to use.
