@title
Steamed Fish

@body
Mei Ling Moy

Mei Ling was my instructor for my Chinese cooking class.  This recipe was a bonus she gave me as the best way to cook good fish that did not need to have the fish flavor disguised.  We have used it often.

This is about the easiest way to have fish or seafood, other than raw.  It works very well for small fish.  I say this for the benefit of the other fishermen in the family.  The Chinese believe that a whole fish, not part of a fish, should be eaten, as the whole fish brings good fortune.  Fillets, fish in pieces, and fish without heads can also be cooked this way.

Equipment:
	A plate large enough to hold, in one layer, the fish you wish to serve
	A steamer, a pot, or a wok of sufficient size to hold the plate of fish.
	A lid to cover the steamer.  
	A tuna fish can with the top and bottom removed
	1 teaspoon oil
	1 or 2 slices ginger
	Fish or seafood of your choice and quantity, at room temperature
	1 tablespoon soy sauce
	1 or 2 scallions, finely sliced

Put the tuna can ring in the bottom of the wok.  Fill the wok with water to about 1/4 inch below the top of the tuna can ring.  Heat water to a boil.

While water is heating, lightly oil the plate for the fish.  Place the fish on the oiled plate in one layer.  When the water is boiling, carefully place the fish plate on the tuna can ring in the wok.  Place the lid on the wok.  Steam the fish for 7 minutes per pound, regardless of the shape or size.
After the estimated time is up--don't peek before--test the fish.  It should just flake.  Carefully remove the plate of fish from wok.  Pour off excess juices generated during the cooking.

Just before the fish is finished cooking, in a separate pan heat about 2 or 3 teaspoons oil until it is very hot, almost to the point of smoking.  As soon as the plate of fish has been removed from the steamer and drained, drizzle the hot oil on the surface of the fish.  This will brown and "crackle" it up as in deep frying.  Next, drizzle the soy sauce on top, and finally sprinkle on the chopped green onion and serve.
