@title
Lucia Cats

@contentTitle
Lucia Cats (Swedish Lussekatter)

@body
A World of Breads, Dolores Casella

These Swedish buns are traditional eating on December 13, the official start of the Christmas season in Sweden.  The name honors St. Lucia, a fourth-century martyr.  In Sweden, the eldest daughter wears a wreath of lighted candles in her hair--much like the Advent wreath--and rises early to serve hot Lucy cakes to the family.

Preheat oven to 350º.

	2 cakes yeast
	1/4 cup warm water
	1 cup evaporated milk
	2/3 cup sugar
	3 large eggs
	1 teaspoon salt
	1/2 cup butter, melted
	4 1/2 cups flour
	1 1/2 cups rolled oats
	1 teaspoon crushed cardamom seed

Dissolve the yeast in the warm water.  Combine the evaporated milk, sugar, eggs, salt, and melted butter and blend thoroughly.  Stir in the yeast mixture, half the flour, all the rolled oats, and cardamom seed.  Beat well and then stir in enough more flour to make a soft but workable dough.  Turn onto a floured board and knead until smooth.  Place in a bowl, brush with butter, cover, and let rise until doubled.  

When dough has doubled, punch it down, turn it out onto the breadboard again, and let it rest for 10 minutes.  Take a portion of the dough at a time and roll into a rope.  Cut the ropes into 5”s, each strip about 1/2 inch wide. 

Using 2 strips for each roll, cross them to form the letter X, and turn each end out slightly.  Place on buttered cookie sheets and let rise.  Decorate the rolls with raisins and brush with butter, or brush with cream and sprinkle with sugar and slivered almonds.  Bake in a 350º oven for about 15 to 20 minutes, or until rolls are done.

I make a double recipe because people seem to like them, and I can use a whole can of evaporated milk.  Regular milk can be added to make up the difference.  I also roll out the dough about 1/2 inch thick, and, with a pizza cutter, start at the outside edge of the rolled dough to cut a long strip of dough 1/2 inch wide.  I then cut these strips about two feet long, roll lightly to make round, and cut to 5” lengths.  This method seems easier and faster.  I also make my X's S-shaped and tuck the ends of the S under the center of the roll to hold their shape better.  I gave up on raisins and nuts. They do not stay on the roll. Just brush with milk and sprinkle with sugar.