@title
Steamed Buns

@body
Chinese Cooking, Garland Books

This is a great way to use the roast pork for 24 buns.  The buns freeze well and make handy snacks or appetizers with Chinese dinners.

	1 package dry yeast
	1 tablespoon sugar
	1 1/4 cups lukewarm water
	3 1/2 to 4 cups flour
	2 tablespoons oil
	4 scallions, minced
	1 garlic clove, crushed
	3 cups minced roast pork (see recipe)
	2 teaspoons sugar
	2 tablespoons soy sauce
	1 tablespoon sherry
	1 1/2 tablespoon cornstarch 
	3 tablespoons chicken broth
	2 teaspoons red food coloring

Sprinkle yeast and sugar over 1/4 cup lukewarm water and stir to dissolve.  Let stand 10 minutes.  Add remaining 1 cup water and mix well.  Add the flour 1/2 cup at a time until approximately 3 cups have been added.  Turn the dough out onto a floured board and knead the dough, incorporating as much of the additional flour as is necessary to keep it from sticking to the board and your hands.

Continue to knead until the dough is smooth and satiny, about 7 minutes.  Place the dough in an oiled bowl, cover with a towel and let rise until doubled in bulk (1 to 2 hours) depending on the warmth of your kitchen.

Meanwhile prepare the filling.  Heat the oil in a wok.  Stir fry the scallion and garlic for 1 minute.  Add the pork and stir fry until heated through.  Add the sugar, soy sauce, and sherry and stir to blend.  

Add the cornstarch dissolved in the chicken broth and stir until thickened.  Set the mixture aside to cool.

Punch the dough down and knead for 3 minutes.  Shape into a log about 2 inches in diameter.  Cut the dough into 24 equal pieces.  Roll each piece into a circle about 3 to 3 3/2 inches in diameter.

Divide the filling into 24 portions and place 1 portion in the center of each round of dough.  Pull the sides of the dough up around the filling and pinch the edges together.  With the palms of your hands, gently shape the buns into neat, round balls.  

Heat a steamer, or large pot with a steaming rack to boiling.  Place the buns in the steamer on their pieces of waxed paper and steam 20 minutes, or until glossy and smooth.

Dip a chopstick in the red food coloring and make a dot on top of each bun.  These buns may be made ahead and reheated by steaming again for a few minutes (or microwave for a few seconds).