@title
Pfeffernuesse

@contentTitle
Pfeffernuesse (Pepper Nuts)

@body
Hulda Stuckey's Peppernuts

This old Swiss recipe takes a long time, but those little nuggets and worth the wait.  Also good for cutting teeth.

Be prepared.  This makes enough pfeffernuesse to wrap in gilt paper and give to friends at Christmas.

2 1/2 pounds molasses
1 pound butter
2 tablespoons soda
1/2 cup water, warm
5 pounds flour
1/2 ounce cloves, ground
1/4 ounce cinnamon
1/4 ounce cardamom
6 eggs, well beaten
1 pound sugar

In a large pan, heat the molasses and butter to boiling.  While this mixture is heating, sift the flour and spices into a large bowl.  Have this ready before the molasses boils.  

As soon as the molasses mixture comes to boil, stir in the soda dissolved in the water.  DO THIS OVER THE BIG FLOUR BOWL TO CATCH THE BUBBLE OVERFLOW.  Mix with flour mixture and let cool.

Beat eggs and sugar together, and then add to cooled flour mixture. Mix well, and turn out on floured board and knead like bread until all ingredients are thoroughly blended, adding flour for kneading as needed to make a soft dough.

In "olden times" a large bowl was used for this next step.  A greased plastic bag works better.  Put the dough in the greased bag (2 gallon size or bigger).  Squeeze out all air pockets and seal.  Place in the refrigerator, basement or closet for at least three (3) weeks.

When ready to bake, preheat oven to 350.  Cut off some of the batter.  Roll out in a sheet about 1/2 inch thick.  Cut 1/2 inch wide strips with a pizza cutter.  Roll strips into rolls about 3/8 to 1/2 inches in diameter.  Cut these rolls into pieces about 1/2 inch long. Bake pieces on greased cookie sheets.  Avoid placing the pieces so they touch each other on the cookie sheet.  Bake in a 350 oven for 10 to 12 minutes.  Remove cookies when done and cool on rack.  Store in airtight container.  

The dough keeps a long time, but so do the cooked pepper nuts.

Hulda's mother brought this recipe from Switzerland when she migrated to this country.  Also, the spices "cook" the eggs, so not to worry.