@title
Oxtain Ragout

@body
House & Garden's New Cook Book

Actually, the cook book is so well worn the title page is missing, but it cannot be more than twenty-five years old since we first discovered oxtail ragoût in Chicago the fall Mary was conceived.  It was an ICMA meeting, the International City Managers' Association, and we were prowling the local restaurants with friends for lunch.  We found a German restaurant with large, round, wooden tables and sturdy chairs--and a menu of hefty offerings including oxtail ragoût.  We had never had it.  We loved it.

Shortly thereafter with a box of Dash detergent came a free, large, paperback House & Garden's cook book, and there we found the following recipe we've been using ever since.

	4 pounds oxtails, cleaned and cut in serving-size pieces
	1/4 cup flour
	Salt and pepper
	3 tablespoons bacon fat or rendered salt pork fat
	1/4 cup chopped onion
	1 bay leaf
	Pinch of thyme
	1 pound can tomatoes
	2 beef bouillon cubes
	1 cup red wine
	1 stalk celery, diced
	2 or 3 leeks (white part only), cut in 2" lengths
	1 parsnip, peeled and cubed
	1 carrot, peeled and cubed
	1/4 pound button mushrooms, sautéed in butter, or 6-ounce canbutton mushrooms

Cover the oxtail pieces with boiling water.  Let stand for 5 to 10 minutes; drain.  Blend the flour with 1 teaspoon salt and the pepper.  Dredge oxtail pieces and sautéed in the hot fat in a skillet until well-browned on all sides.  Transfer to Dutch oven or similar heavy pot with a cover.  Add chopped onion and cook until golden.  Add onion to meat in pot with herbs, tomatoes, bouillon cubes, and wine.  Cover pot tightly, bring to a boil, turn down and simmer over very low heat for 3 hours.  Add celery, leeks, parsnip, and carrot.  Taste for salt.  Cover and cook ½ hour longer.  Add sautéed mushrooms to the ragout 5 minutes before turning off heat.  If possible, make the ragoût 24 hours in advance and chill in the refrigerator.  It tastes better when reheated and also freezes well.

A suggestion:  after the meat has cooked and before the vegetables are added, remove the meat from the bones.  Return the meat to the pot, and discard the bones.
