@title
Baklazhannaia Ikra

@contentTitle
Baklazhannaia Ikra (Poor Man's Caviar)

@body
Recipes: Russian Cooking, Time Life Books
 
This recipe from the Caucasus is another we first tried at our Russian dinner with the Ramapo to England group. 
 
	1 large eggplant (about 2 pounds)
	1 cup onions, finely chopped
	6 tablespoons olive oil
	1/2 cup green pepper, finely chopped
	2 large tomatoes, peeled, seeded, and finely chopped
	1/2 teaspoon sugar
	2 teaspoons salt
	Freshly ground black pepper
	2 to 3 tablespoons lemon juice
	Dark rye or pumpernickel bread or sesame-seed crackers
 
Preheat oven to 425ยบ.  Bake the eggplant on a rack in the center of the oven for about 1 hour, turning it over once or twice until it is soft and its skin is charred and blistered.
 
Meanwhile, cook the onions in 4 tablespoons of the oil over moderate heat for 6 to 8 minutes until they are soft but not brown.  Stir in the green pepper and garlic and cook, stirring occasionally, for 5 minutes longer.  With a rubber spatula scrape the contents of the skillet into a mixing bowl. 
 
Remove the skin from the baked eggplant with a small, sharp knife and then chop the eggplant pulp finely, almost to a puree.  Add it to the mixing bowl and stir in the tomatoes, sugar, salt and a few grindings of black pepper.  Mix together thoroughly.  Heat the remaining 2 tablespoons of oil in the skillet over moderate heat and pour in the eggplant mixture.  Bring to a boil, stirring constantly, then turn the heat to low, cover the skillet and simmer for 1 hour.  Remove the cover and cook an additional half hour, stirring from time to time, until all the moisture in the pan has evaporated and the mixture is thick enough to hold its shape in a spoon.  Stir in the lemon juice and taste for seasoning, adding more salt, pepper, and lemon juice to taste.
 
Transfer the "caviar" to a mixing bowl and chill, covered with plastic wrap, until ready to serve.  Serve on squares of bread or on sesame-seed crackers.  Keeps well in refrigerator or freezer.
 
The major portion of the chopping and mixing can also be done with a food processor to save time.