@title
Tart Auz Airelles Plaza-Athénée

@contentTitle
Tart Auz Airelles Plaza-Athénée (Cranberry Tart)

@body
Gourmet/ March 1983

This cranberry tart is spectacular to look at and just as good to eat.

	pâté sucrée (recipe follows)
	raw rice for weighting the shell
	2 cups crème d'amandes (recipe follows)
	1 cup sugar
	3 cups cranberries (thawed if frozen)
	1/4 cup raspberry jam, melted and strained, or red currant jelly, melted

Roll the pâté sucrée into a round 1/8 inch thick on a floured surface and fit it into a 10-inch flan pan with a removable fluted rim. (I use a pizza pan and increase the proportions accordingly.)  Prick the shell with a fork and chill it for 1 hour.  Line the shell with wax paper, fill the paper with uncooled rice, and bake the shell on a baking sheet in the lower third of a preheated hot oven (400º) for 10 minutes, or until it begins to set.  Remove the rice and paper carefully and bake the shell in the hot oven, pricking any air bubbles that form, for 12 minutes more, or until it is pale golden.  Let the shell cool in the pan of a rack for 10 minutes.  Spread the crème d'amandes in the shell, reduce the heat to moderately hot (375º), and bake the tart for 15 minutes, or until it is golden.  Let the tart cool in the pan on a rack.

In a stainless steel or enameled sauce pan combine the sugar with 1/4 cup water.  Cook the mixture over moderately low heat, stirring and washing down any sugar crystals clinging to the sides with a brush dipped in cold water, until the sugar is dissolved, and boil the syrup for 2 minutes.

Add the cranberries, tossing them gently to coat them with the syrup, and simmer the mixture, covered, for 4 minutes, or until the cranberries are tender but still whole.  Do not over-cook the cranberries or they will fall apart. Transfer the mixture to a bowl and let it cool.

Transfer the cooled cranberries with a slotted spoon to the tart, arranging them in an even single layer.  Drizzle 2 tablespoons or so of the syrup over the cranberries as a thin glaze.  Bake the tart in a preheated hot oven (400º) for 5 minutes, or until the berries are set.

Transfer the tart to a rack and brush the cranberries with the jam.  Let the tart cool and remove the rim of the pan if one was used.

Serve at the table by cutting into pie-shaped wedges 2 to 3 inches wide.  This is a rich tasting dessert and very good.  People will come back for more.