@title
Apple Butter

@body
Use well-flavored apples--Cortlands, Macintosh--or a mixture.  Eat one or two before you begin because apples vary in taste and sweetness.

You can make a small batch of this, but it always seems to come out right, so make a large quantity to start with.  Maybe I say that because I eat apple butter like most people eat applesauce.  Your dad used to say I ate toast with my apple butter.

Start with a half bushel of apples.  Wash them and cut them into quarters.  If you use a Foley mill, you do not have to remove stems, peel, or cores.  (A Foley mill is a useful kitchen tool.  It extrudes pulp and leaves the dregs behind.)

Place the apple quarters in a large porcelain or other non-aluminum pot over low heat until the apples juice a bit.  Simmer slowly until the apples are soft and mushy.  Stir frequently-apples tend to stick and then scorch.

Put the cooked apples through the Foley mill in batches.  Throw the skins, seeds, and stems on the compost pile.

Turn the apple puree into a large bowl.  In another bowl, measure 1/4 to 1/2 cups sugar for each cup of puree.  I always start with the lesser amount of sugar.

To the sugar, stir in the following:
	6 teaspoons cinnamon
	3 teaspoons ground cloves
	1 teaspoon ground allspice

Add the sugar/spice mixture to the puree and blend well.  Taste it.  It will taste raw, but it should have a definite spicy taste.  Add sugar and spices as needed, but keep the same proportion of spices.

You can return the seasoned puree to a large pot and cook down over low heat on top of the stove.  However, we put the puree in a large, non-aluminum roaster and bake it in a 300ยบ oven for several hours.  Either way, cook until the apple butter thickens, browns, and bubbles throughout.  Stir occasionally.

You can cook the puree in batches if you don't have a large roaster.  You can also add reserved puree as the quantity shrinks somewhat as it cooks.

While the apple butter cooks down, sterilize jars.  I generally use peanut butter or pasta sauce jars as they are large and the non-plastic lids seal well.  Boil them in a large container like a Dutch oven for at least five minutes.

To fill the jars, have ready tongs, a large-mouth funnel if possible, a long-handled ladle, hot pads, and soup bowl.  Rinse the tools in hot water.

Use the tongs to put a drained, sterile jar on a cooling rack.  Place the funnel in the jar, and ladle in hot apple butter, filling the jar to within 1/2 inch of the top.  If needed, wipe the top with a damp paper towel.  It must be clean for a good seal.

With the tongs, remove a hot, wet lid from the sterilizing bath and place it on the jar.  Tighten fully.  

Repeat the process until all the apple butter is preserved.  Pour excess into the soup bowl and refrigerate after it is cooled.  It's ready for breakfast.

When the jars are cooled, store them in a dark, cool spot.
