@title
Hints and Suggestions

@contentTitle
HINTS, SUGGESTIONS, REMINDERS AND OTHER THINGS YOU HAVE HEARD BEFORE

@body
Learned from disasters and borrowed from wise and experienced persons…
 
The kitchen is full of dangers.  Be safe and careful.
	Know what you will do in case of fire.
	Always use a sharp knife and the right knife for the job.
	Make your kitchen “kid proof.”
 
When making bread, learn to “feel” the dough.  Treat the dough rough when kneading yeast bread to release the gluten.  When it’s right, it does feel like a baby’s bottom.
 
The optimum temperature to make dough rise is about 76º.  On cold days, put the dough above a pan of hot water to rise.  Putting it in a warm oven is not reliable.
 
When dissolving yeast in water, add ¼ to ½ teaspoon sugar to activate the yeast quicker.
 
Flours differ greatly.  Be prepared to vary the quantity somewhat from the recipe, by adding a little flour at a time.
 
About 1-1/2 hours are required for the first dough rise and ½ to 1 hour are required for the second rise.
 
Cover dough with a cloth towel when in the rising bowl.  A little vegetable oil in the bowl is good for greasing the rising bowl.
 
If the dough, on its final rise, goes too long and overflows the baking pan, just knock it down, regrease the pan, reform the dough and let it rise again.  It will help, not hurt the bread.
 
Tend to undercook, rather than overcook, except for recipes like refried beans.
 
If the tops of breads in the oven start to brown too quickly, lay a loose foil umbrella over the bread.
 
Remove loaf breads from the pan immediately after removing them from the oven unless otherwise directed.  If not, the moisture will condense and the bread will be soggy.  Let breads completely cool on a rack before packaging.
 
Always heat a skillet, pan or wok before adding oil, grease, or any ingredient.  This reduces sticking.  It also reduces the amount of oil that will be absorbed into what you are cooking.
 
When sticking does occur during a stir fry, do not add more oil.  Add a little chicken broth or water.  Putting the lid on and steaming the contents will provide moisture.
 
Stir frying is a misnomer.  It is really steaming in a fry pan according to Mei Ling.  Thinking of the process in that way does help your technique.
 
Always use a seasoned carbon steel wok.  Never use a stainless or electric wok.
 
Vegetables are best steamed whether in a pan, microwave or wok.  Vegetables are “done” when they are at their brightest color.
 
Watch salt.  You can always add more, but you can’t remove it except by throwing out dinner or doubling the recipe.
 
Use fresh spices whenever possible.  Always use fresh ground pepper.
 
When deep-fat frying, make certain the oil is to temperature before adding any food.  Use a thermometer or an infallible Chinese method.  Insert a bamboo chopstick vertically to the bottom of the wok or pan of oil.  When tiny bubbles appear and rise around the chopstick, the oil is ready to use.  If bubbles do not appear, heat the oil further.
 
Add only a few ingredients at a time when deep-frying.  Make sure they are dried well.  Water into the hot oil will cause major splattering and is dangerous.
 
Deep-frying can be done in advance.  Reheat by placing in one layer on a paper towel-lined tray or cookie sheet and inserting in a hot (450º oven) for 1 or 2 minutes immediately before serving.
 
Cooled cooking oil can be re-used if strained and stored properly.  Do not save oil in which strong-flavored ingredients have been cooked.  Don’t waste good food with bad oil.
 
Utilize the “roll cut” for vegetables for all types of cooking.  This Chinese method allows a maximum surface to be exposed.  Therefore it will cook faster and retain color, freshness and food value better.  It also provides an aesthetic quality for making food attractive and easier to pick up.
 
To roll cut a carrot:
-liststart
Clean the carrot and cut ½” off the top and bottom.
Lay the carrot on a cutting board and cutting straight down; cut a wedge off the bottom of the carrot.  The knife edge should be placed in the middle of the bottom end of the carrot and angled to the side of the carrot about 1-1/2” up the side of the carrot from the bottom.  Cut this piece off,
Roll the carrot toward you, one-fourth of the way over.  Make a similar cut form the bottom of the carrot, and repeat up the carrot until totally cut.
-listend

-img rollCut.png

Keep practicing.
 
Flavor and taste, appearance, and presentation are necessary ingredients for food whether it will be plain or fancy, cheap or expensive.
 
Always use the freshest and best quality ingredients possible.  Don’t waste cooking effort by taking a chance on questionable quality. 