@title
Introduction

@contentTitle
Introduction

@body
As we look at the table of contents from previous editions of our family cookbook, we wonder how we two managed to survive so far eating biscuits and scones and chocolate chip cookies, weekly household staples.  How could we gather on our bed on Sunday mornings without the newspaper and a tea tray laden with scones and butter?
 
Dinners for six? Fried chicken, of course. Lasagna or anything with pasta.  More.  Meat loaf and mashed potatoes.  Pot roast with hash the next day.
 
We first ate seafood and drank wine in California where we were living on the Navy.  As grad students in Lawrence, Kansas, we were lucky just to eat—we didn’t have much time tossing Paula back and forth between classes.  She could drink only skim milk, and our downstairs neighbors introduced us to dry, skim milk.  To this day we drink non-fat milk and use dry milk to make yoghurt.
 
In St. Louis, your dad’s Jewish mother, Bea Smissman, recommended rye bread and bagels.  We moved to Blue Ash, Ohio, where we encountered Rusty and Roy Jett, bratwurst, and Montgomery ribs. We still encounter the Jetts whenever we can—but we gave up brats and ribs except on rare occasions.  In Monroeville, a Pittsburgh suburb, we discovered the McCarthy’s and Gourmet.
 
We had met Rosemary and Frank and asked them to dinner.  They were a little early; I met them at the door with hands covered in flour from making biscuits.  “Come on in,” I said.  They flinched but came in anyway—and our friendship grew to many years of cooking and eating together.  We organized a couples’ bridge which met monthly with each couple providing something for the dinner.  One month your dad and I took “Four-in-hand Chicken” from Julia Child’s popular cookbook.  Rosemary looked at us before she served and said, “You used the wings?”  We still serve Four-in-hand Chicken as do all of you, but we don’t use the wings.
 
Your dad and Frank learned to make bread.  We glued the McCarthy kitchen with simple syrup when we froze too many peaches.  The year the guys made wine, we had beautiful rosé that tasted like the moldy grapes our kind greengrocer had provided.  We stuffed a red snapper with Connie and Dick Oriani and, with Ina and Don Spencer, recognized what fondue really means: dip the fork into the toast into vodka into hot cheese fondue and savor.
 
Cherry Hill provided sidewalks.  Probably for the first time in your lives, you could strap on skates.  That really dates our arrival!  Also for the first time, we picked blueberries, first in the berry farms and then around the lake at a Girl Scout camp where we lined a canoe with a plastic tarp, paddled close to the shore, and shook the bushes.  The ripe fruit fell, and we paddled to the dock where we transferred the berries to containers.  We’re still making blueberry muffins—low-fat, of course, and, just for a treat, blueberry coffeecake.
 
We moved to West Milford/Hewitt/Awosting in 1986.  Anything new in dining?  Well, West Milford has two major groceries, 15 gas stations, and more pizza parlors than we can count.  If you want to eat well here, you eat at our house.
 
However, age and genes and shifts in life styles have caught up with us.  We still drink non-fat milk as we have since Paula was an infant.  We still eat fish—red snapper remains a first choice.  We enjoy wine, introduced from our California days.  Bagels continue as breakfast favorites though we may dig out the middle and fill in with smoked trout or whitefish, not whitefish salad.  The occasional pizza is likely to be the vegetarian, thin-crust variety.  We often eat “dinner at noon” and enjoy a light evening meal like soup or salad—one of the pleasures of being retired is greater flexibility with the clock and calendar.  Retirement has brought us into the kitchen to sip perfect martinis as we plan menus and cook together.
 
When a cooking periodical arrives, we go through the index of recipes and choose ones we want to try.  Thus these pages are graced with that wonderful recipe to roast the squash pieces with red grapes and sage.  Maybe you are trying the roast lamb and tahini in the toasted pita half or the barley and lentil soup with Swiss chard.  We couldn’t believe how good the soup tastes.  Yum. 
 
There’s another resource we welcome: recipes from all of you.  We would never have thought about a potato soup base if we had not visited Penelope and David in Ecuador where the potato is ubiquitous.  Paula’s salads, Ann’s cakes and cookies, Mary’s black bean salad—it’s a family cookbook, so feel free to try what’s here and recommend what is not.
 
Our first edition took an entire day to print just 10 copies.  The second update provided inserts of some forgotten favorites and new items accumulated during the intervening years.  Our thanks to Mary who undertook publishing and distributing this edition.  The old recipes we no longer make are still included for historical interest, but this version comes with a new look and new dining experiences to tempt all our palates.
 
You all cook well.  You dine with pleasure.  We look forward to sharing tables for many years to come.
 
Much love,
Mom and Dad
 
December 2005

-line

Christmas, 1989
 
Good food, fortunately, has always been a part of our lives and our heritage.  Being from Kansas and located close to the farm, good home cooking was a part of our experience, not as an end in itself but as a catalyst to good fellowship.
 
Your mother’s mothers, Phyllis Conner, was a good cook with a variety of tastes and your mother’s father, Harold, while he couldn’t boil water, was an accomplished gourmand with a true appreciation for fine food.  Your mother was raised on a salt-free diet, but her mother also tried to raise her on raw oysters, curried chicken, vegetables, and green salads which she never liked as a child.  Your grandmother made mouth-watering rolls and bread, however, and she and your mother spent a lot of time with the Andalers.
 
Andale is a small farming community a few miles west of Wichita, Kansas.  The “cousins” of your grandmother were of German extraction –and one had married an Italian from Pittsburgh—and brought their good food with them.  Fortunately, they have passed on some gems to us.
 
My mom and Dad, Edith and John Steiner, technically my aunt and uncle who raised me from birth, enjoyed good food too.  Mom was a fine cook and Dad loved to eat, basically “meat and potatoes.”  Those were the good old days of meat every meal, often fried with gravy to cover.  Fried bacon or ham was a must for breakfast along with pancakes and eggs.  We had a good time before cholesterol, nitrites, weight watching, meals of just a salad, and salted food was salted again on your plate—before you tasted it.  Green beans also had to be cooked all day or they weren’t done.
 
We also were fortunate to have Aunt Hulda.  Aunt Hulda and Uncle John Stuckey were Dad’s Swiss “cousins” and lived on a farm south of Wichita.  I remember during World War II, when food was scarce and rationed, going out to the farm, planting and digging potatoes, picking the corn, helping butcher a beef or pig, separating cream from milk, plucking chickens, and canning these products for our food supply.  This was before the days of the freezer and very few packaged foods.  Hulda and her daughter were fine cooks and bakers.  I still remember the aromas of her big kitchen in the farm house.
 
Your mother related one of her experiences, when during the war her Irish Setter ate their food ration stamps.  He liked the glue on the back of the stamps.  Those ration books were important because they let our mothers buy sugar which made jam and jelly and birthday cakes.  The war also brought the first margarine which came looking like Spry-white.   With the margarine came a little yellow capsule which you broke and blended into the spread.
 
With all respect, when I married your mother she could broil a steak, cook a pot roast, and boil water.  Fortunately, she was a quick study and had a willingness to learn and try new food.
 
The two of us have had fun and enjoyment with food, the adventure of tasting a new or different flavor, of playing together in its preparation, and the pleasure it brings to us to share it with our family and friends.  All of you have also been good, interested students and accomplished cooks in your own right.  For this reason, we have decided to share some of the particular recipes we have used.  Many of the recipes included are old standards that we grew up with; some are dishes that remind us of special occasions and special friends; and some just make for good eating.
 
The sub-title for this collection comes from our house rule, when you were growing up, that when a meal was served, you had to try at least one bit of everything on your plate.  We did try to please your palates, broaden your tastes, and at the same time keep you healthy.
 
What we did not recognize for some time was that over the years as the Christmas and other holiday seasons passed, birthdays came and went, the combination of foods served or a particular recipe had to be used because it was now a “tradition” in your perceptions.  If it pleases you, please carry them on for you, your families, and friends.
 
This little production is loose leaf so we can add selections because we want this to be a FAMILY cookbook.  As your spouses and grandchildren expand the family, you bring your own good taste and favorite foods that we can share in this and future editions.
 
Bon Appetit and love,
 
Mom and Dad

-line

Christmas, 1992
Dear Family and Friends:

Somehow we omitted Mrs. Martin’s banana bread in the first edition, a recipe that’s at least 50 years old and in frequent use, so we knew we should produce an addendum to the Pickens’ Family Cookbook.  We feel the same way about the cranberry tart – we tired of looking through Gourmet indexes every time we wanted to make it.
 
Feijoada came to us from Larissa Polo who joined the family as a Rotary exchange scholar last year.  We wanted to help her feel at home, and cooking.  Brazilian foods seemed to be one way to do it.  Lara’s mother, Dalva, sent the feijoada recipe which Lara translated and helped us prepare—more than once.
 
Rose Berardocco parted with her escarole soup recipe during a conversation with Carrol.  We’ve looked forward to it every holiday and relish its inclusion.  Besides, it will save Albert having to bring his own supply when he comes to visit.
 
The green bean salads were a summer happening – we had green beans in the garden and a potluck picnic to attend.  The guests inhaled both and sought the recipe which we share with you.
 
We just released we did not ask Ilyse Janove for copyright permission, but she had given her salad dressing recipe to Paula, we like it, especially on a spinach salad, so we include it with her credits.  We’ll send her a copy.  The same is true for Marsha Taylor’s marinated chicken which enlivens summer evenings.
 
Keep those cards and letters coming.